
                         A LIST OF EDUCATIONAL
                          WORKS PUBLISHED BY
                          METHUEN AND COMPANY
                           PUBLISHERS: LONDON
                            36 ESSEX STREET
                                  W.C.




                                CONTENTS


            CLASSICAL                                      3
            SCRIPTORUM CLASSICORUM BIBLIOTHECA OXONIENSIS  4
            CLASSICAL TRANSLATIONS                         5
            WORKS BY A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A.                6
            SCHOOL EXAMINATION SERIES                      8
            METHUEN’S COMMERCIAL SERIES                    9
            SCIENCE AND MATHEMATICS                       10
            TECHNOLOGY                                    11
            TEXT-BOOKS OF TECHNOLOGY                      12
            METHUEN’S SCIENCE PRIMERS                     13
            GERMAN                                        13
            HISTORICAL                                    13
            GENERAL                                       13
            UNIVERSITY EXTENSION SERIES                   15


              MESSRS. METHUEN WILL BE GLAD TO SEND
              PROSPECTUSES OF ANY OF THEIR SERIES; AND
              _BONÂ FIDE_ TEACHERS MAY OBTAIN FREE
              SPECIMEN COPIES OF MANY OF THE BOOKS, AND
              SPECIMEN COPIES OF OTHERS AT HALF THE
              PUBLISHED PRICE


                               JUNE 1900

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  NOTE


              A COPY OF ANY BOOK IN THIS LIST CAN BE SEEN
              AT 36 ESSEX STREET, STRAND, W.C.; AND MOST
              OF THEM MAY BE CONSULTED AT THE LIBRARY OF
              THE TEACHERS’ GUILD, 74 GOWER STREET, W.C.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                           MESSRS. METHUEN’S
                            EDUCATIONAL LIST




                               Classical.


 =The Nicomachean Ethics of Aristotle.= Edited, with an Introduction and
   Notes, by JOHN BURNET, M.A., Professor of Greek at St. Andrews. Demy
   8vo, 15s. net.

This edition contains parallel passages from the Eudemian Ethics,
printed under the text, and there is a full commentary, the main object
of which is to interpret difficulties in the light of Aristotle’s own
rules.

“This is both a scholarly and an original contribution to the study of
the ancient Greek language and the ancient Greek philosophy. It is an
original book in the sense of contributing to the study of the subject,
not only mere learning and skill in summing up and expounding the
results of the researches of prior scholars, but also fresh and
illuminative ideas of the editor’s own. It is an edition which reflects
every credit upon its author’s learning and critical acumen, and which
cannot but prove heartily welcome to all classes of Greek
scholars.”—_Scotsman._


 =The Captivi of Plautus.= Edited, with an Introduction, Textual Notes,
   and a Commentary, by W. M. LINDSAY, Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford.
   Demy 8vo, 10s. 6d. net.

For this edition all the important MSS. have been re-collated. An
Appendix deals with the accentual element in early Latin verse. The
Commentary is very full.


 =Plauti Bacchides.= Edited, with Introduction, Commentary, and Critical
   Notes, by J. M‘COSH, M.A. Fcap. 4to, 12s. 6d.


 =Taciti Agricola.= With Introduction, Notes, Map, etc. By R. F. DAVIS,
   M.A., Assistant Master at Weymouth College. Crown 8vo, 2s.


 =Taciti Germania.= By the same Editor. Crown 8vo, 2s.


 =Herodotus: Easy Selections.= With Vocabulary. By A. C. LIDDELL, M.A.,
   Assistant Master at Nottingham High School. Fcap. 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =Demosthenes against Conon and Callicles.= Edited, with Notes and
   Vocabulary, by F. DARWIN SWIFT, M.A. Fcap. 8vo, 2s.


 =Selections from the Odyssey.= By E. D. STONE, M.A., late Assistant
   Master at Eton. Fcap. 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =Plautus: The Captivi.= Adapted for Lower Forms by J. H. FREESE, M.A.,
   late Fellow of St. John’s, Cambridge, 1s. 6d.


 =A Greek Anthology.= Selected by E. C. MARCHANT, M.A., Fellow of
   Peterhouse, Cambridge, and late Assistant Master at St. Paul’s
   School. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.


 =New Testament Greek.= A Course for Beginners. By G. RODWELL, B.A. With
   a Preface by WALTER LOCK, D.D., Warden of Keble College. Fcap. 8vo,
   3s. 6d.


 =Exercises in Latin Accidence.= By S. E. WINBOLT, Assistant Master in
   Christ’s Hospital. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

An elementary book adapted for Lower Forms to accompany the shorter
Latin Primer.


 =Notes on Greek and Latin Syntax.= By G. BUCKLAND GREEN, M.A.,
   Assistant Master at Edinburgh Academy, late Fellow of St. John’s
   College, Oxon. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Notes and explanations on the chief difficulties of Greek and Latin
Syntax, with numerous passages for exercise.


 =Passages for Unseen Translation.= By E. C. MARCHANT, M.A., Fellow of
   Peterhouse, Cambridge; and A. M. COOK, M.A., Assistant Master at St.
   Paul’s School. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

“We know no book of this class better fitted for use in the higher
forms of schools.”—_Guardian._

------------------------------------------------------------------------




             Scriptorum Classicorum Bibliotheca Oxoniensis.

                     OXFORD CLASSICAL TEXTS, 1900.


 =Thucydidis Historiae.= Libri I.-IV. By H. STUART JONES. Crown 8vo,
   paper covers, 3s.; limp cloth, 3s. 6d.


 =Platonis Opera.= Tom. I. (Tetralogiae I.-II.). By J. BURNET. Crown
   8vo, paper covers, 5s.; limp cloth, 6s.


 =Lvcreti Cari de Rervm Natvra.= By C. BAILEY. Crown 8vo, paper covers,
   2s. 6d.; limp cloth, 3s.


 =Cornelii Taciti Opera Minora.= By H. FURNEAUX. Crown 8vo, paper
   covers, 1s. 6d.


 =Aeschyli Tragoediae cum Fragmentis.= By A. SIDGWICK. Crown 8vo, paper
   covers, 3s.; limp cloth, 3s. 6d.


 =Apollonii Rhodii Argonautica.= By R. C. SEATON. Crown 8vo, paper
   covers, 2s. 6d.; limp cloth, 3s.


 =Aristophanis Comoediae.= Tom. I. By F. W. HALL and W. M. GELDART.
   Crown 8vo, paper covers, 3s.; limp cloth, 3s. 6d.


 =Xenophontis Opera.= Tom. I. (Historia Graeca). By E. C. MARCHANT.
   Crown 8vo, paper covers, 2s. 6d.; limp cloth, 3s.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                        Classical Translations.

                       EDITED BY H. F. FOX, M.A.,

             FELLOW AND TUTOR OF BRASENOSE COLLEGE, OXFORD.


Messrs. METHUEN propose to issue a New Series of Translations from the
Greek and Latin Classics. They have enlisted the services of some of
the best Oxford and Cambridge Scholars, and it is their intention that
the Series shall be distinguished by literary excellence, as well as by
scholarly accuracy.

                       Crown 8vo. Finely printed.

 =Cicero. De Oratore I.= Translated by E. N. P. MOOR, M.A., late
   Assistant Master at Clifton. 3s. 6d.


 =Aeschylus—Agamemnon, Chöephoroe, Eumenides.= Translated by LEWIS
   CAMPBELL, LL.D., late Professor of Greek at St. Andrews. 5s.


 =Lucian=—Six Dialogues (Nigrinus, Icaro-Menippus, The Cock, The Ship,
   The Parasite, The Lover of Falsehood). Translated by S. T. IRWIN,
   M.A., Assistant Master at Clifton; late Scholar of Exeter College,
   Oxford. 3s. 6d.


 =Sophocles—Electra and Ajax.= Translated by E. D. A. MORSHEAD, M.A.,
   late Scholar of New College, Oxford; Assistant Master at Winchester.
   2s. 6d.


 =Tacitus—Agricola and Germania.= Translated by R. B. TOWNSHEND, late
   Scholar of Trinity College, Cambridge. 2s. 6d.


 =Cicero—Select Orations= (Pro Milone, Pro Murena, Philippic II., In
   Catilinam). Translated by H. E. D. BLAKISTON, M.A., Fellow and Tutor
   of Trinity College, Oxford. 5s.


 =Cicero—De Natura Deorum.= Translated by F. BROOKS, M.A., late Scholar
   of Balliol College, Oxford. 3s. 6d.


 =Horace: The Odes and Epodes.= Translated by A. GODLEY, M.A., Fellow of
   Magdalen College, Oxford. 2s.


 =Cicero de Officiis.= Translated by G. B. GARDINER, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s.
   6d.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                    WORKS BY A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A.


 =Initia Latina=: Easy Lessons on Elementary Accidence. Fourth Edition.
   Fcap. 8vo, 1s.


 =First Latin Lessons.= Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s.


 =First Latin Reader.= With Notes adapted to the Shorter Latin Primer,
   and Vocabulary. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =Easy Selections from Cæsar.= Part I. The Helvetian War. Second
   Edition. 18mo, 1s.


 =Easy Selections from Livy.= Part I. The Kings of Rome. 18mo, 1s. 6d.


 =Easy Latin Passages for Unseen Translation.= Sixth Edition. Fcap. 8vo,
   1s. 6d.


 =Exempla Latina=: First Exercises in Latin Accidence. With Vocabulary.
   Crown 8vo, 1s.


 =Easy Latin Exercises on the Syntax of the Shorter and Revised Latin
   Primer.= With Vocabulary. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d. Issued
   with the consent of Dr. KENNEDY. =Key=, 3s. net.


 =The Latin Compound Sentence=: Rules and Exercises. Second Edition.
   Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.; with Vocabulary, 2s.


 =Notanda Quaedam: Miscellaneous Latin Exercises on Common Rules and
   Idioms.= Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 1s. 6d.; with Vocabulary, 2s.


 =Latin Vocabularies for Repetition=: Arranged according to Subjects.
   Eighth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =A Vocabulary of Latin Idioms and Phrases.= Second Edition. 18mo, 1s.


 =Steps to Greek.= 18mo, 1s.


 =A Shorter Greek Primer.= Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =Easy Greek Passages for Unseen Translation.= Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo,
   1s. 6d.


 =Easy Greek Exercises on Elementary Syntax.= _In preparation._


 =Greek Vocabularies for Repetition=: Arranged according to Subjects.
   Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =Greek Testament Selections.= For the Use of Schools. Third Edition.
   With Introduction, Notes, and Vocabulary. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d.


 =Steps to French.= Fifth Edition. 18mo, 8d.


 =First French Lessons.= Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 1s.


 =Easy French Passages for Unseen Translation.= Third Edition. Fcap.
   8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =Easy French Exercises on Elementary Syntax.= With Vocabulary. Second
   Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key, 3s. net.


 =French Vocabularies for Repetition=: Arranged according to Subjects.
   Eighth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 1s.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                       School Examination Series.

                    EDITED BY A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A.

                        Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. each.


This Series is intended for the use of teachers and students, to supply
material for the former and practice for the latter. The papers are
carefully graduated, cover the whole of the subject usually taught, and
are intended to form part of the ordinary class work. They may be used
_vivâ voce_, or as a written examination. This Series is now in use in
a large number of public and private schools, including Eton, Harrow,
Winchester, Repton, Cheltenham, Sherborne, Haileybury, Manchester
Grammar School, Aldershot Army College, etc.


 =French Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and Idioms.= By A.
   M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Tenth Edition.

  =A Key=, issued to Tutors and Private Students only, to be had on
    application to the Publishers. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. net.


 =Latin Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and Idioms.= By A.
   M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Tenth Edition. =Key= (issued as above), 6s. net.


 =Greek Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and Idioms.= By A.
   M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Sixth Edition. =Key= (issued as above), 6s. net.


 =German Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and Idioms.= By R.
   J. MORICH, Assistant Master at Clifton. Sixth Edition. =Key= (issued
   as above), 6s. net.


 =History and Geography Examination Papers.= By C. H. SPENCE, M.A.,
   Clifton College. Second Edition.


 =Science Examination Papers.= By R. E. STEEL, M.A., F.C.S., Headmaster
   Plymouth Science Schools. In Two Volumes.

      PART I. Chemistry.

      PART II. Physics (Sound, Light, Heat, Magnetism, Electricity).


 =General Knowledge Examination Papers.= By A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Third
   Edition. =Key= (as above), 7s. net.


 =Examination Papers in Book-keeping.= With Preliminary Exercises.
   Compiled and Arranged by J. T. MEDHURST, F.S.Accts. and Auditors, and
   Lecturer at City of London College. Sixth Edition. 3s.


 =English Literature Examination Papers.= Chiefly Collected from College
   Papers set at Cambridge. With an Introduction on the Study of
   English. By the Rev. W. W. SKEAT, Litt.D., LL.D., Professor of
   Anglo-Saxon at Cambridge University. Third Edition, Revised.


 =Arithmetic Examination Papers.= By C. PENDLEBURY, M.A., Senior
   Mathematical Master, St. Paul’s School. Fourth Edition. =Key=, 5s.


 =Trigonometry Examination Papers.= By E. H. WARD, M.A., late Assistant
   Master at St. Paul’s School. Third Edition. =Key=, 5s.


 =Examination Papers in English History.= By J. TAIT WARDLAW, B.A.,
   King’s College, Cambridge. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                      Methuen’s Commercial Series.

               EDITED BY H. DE B. GIBBINS, LITT.D., M.A.

                       Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d. and 2s.


This Series is intended to assist students and young men preparing for
a commercial career, by supplying useful handbooks of a clear and
practical character, dealing with those subjects which are absolutely
essential in a business life. At the same time, the requirements of a
broad education, as opposed to mere cram, are kept in view; while each
volume is the work of a practical teacher of his subject.


 1. =British Commerce and Colonies from Elizabeth to Victoria.= By H. DE
     B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A., Author of “The Industrial History of
     England,” etc. Third Edition. 2s.


 2. =A Manual of French Commercial Correspondence.= By S. E. BALLY,
     Modern Language Master at the Manchester Grammar School. Second
     Edition. 2s.


 3. =A Manual of German Commercial Correspondence.= By S. E. BALLY. 2s.
     6d.


 4. =A French Commercial Reader.= By S. E. BALLY. Second Edition. 2s.


 5. =Commercial Geography.= With special reference to Trade Routes, New
     Markets, and Manufacturing Districts. By L. D. LYDE, M.A., of the
     Academy, Glasgow. Second Edition. 2s.


 6. =Commercial Examination Papers.= By H. DE B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A.,
     Author of “The Industrial History of England.” Papers on Commercial
     Geography and History, French and German Correspondence,
     Book-keeping, and Office Work. 1s. 6d.


 7. =The Economics of Commerce.= By H. DE B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A. 1s.
     6d.


 8. =A Primer of Business.= By S. JACKSON, M.A. Third Edition. 1s. 6d.


 9. =Commercial Arithmetic.= By F. G. TAYLOR, M.A. Third Edition. 1s. 6d.


 10. =Précis Writing and Office Correspondence.= By E. WHITFIELD, M.A.
     2s.


 11. =A Guide to Professions and Business.= By HENRY JONES. 1s. 6d.


 12. =The Principles of Book-keeping by Double Entry.= J. E. B. M‘ALLEN,
     M.A. 2s.


 13. =Commercial Law.= By W. DOUGLAS EDWARDS. 2s.


                       _Other Volumes to follow_

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                        Science and Mathematics.


 =The Scientific Study of Scenery.= By J. E. MARR, M.A., F.R.S., Fellow
   of St. John’s College, Cambridge. With numerous Illustrations and
   Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 6s.

  An elementary treatise on geomorphology—the study of the earth’s
outward forms. It is for the use of students of physical geography and
geology, and will also be highly interesting to the general reader.

“Mr. Marr has produced a volume, moderate in size and readable in
style, which will be acceptable alike to the student of geology and
geography and to the tourist.”—_Athenæum._

“A fascinating book, a real fairy tale, which is the story of the
making of the scenery of to-day.”—_Pall Mall Gazette._


 =The World of Science.= Including Chemistry, Heat, Light, Sound,
   Magnetism, Electricity, Botany, Zoology, Physiology, Astronomy, and
   Geology. By R. ELLIOT STEEL, M.A., F.C.S. 147 Illustrations. Second
   Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

“If Mr. Steel is to be placed second to any for this quality of
lucidity, it is only to Huxley himself; and to be named in the same
breath with this master of the craft of teaching is to be accredited
with the clearness of style and simplicity of arrangement that belong
to thorough mastery of a subject.”—_Parents’ Review._


 =Elementary Light.= By R. E. STEEL. With numerous Illustrations. Crown
   8vo, 4s. 6d.


 =Volumetric Analysis.= By J. B. RUSSELL, B.Sc., Science Master at
   Burnley Grammar School. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

“A collection of useful, well-arranged notes.”—_School Guardian._


 =A South African Arithmetic.= By HENRY HILL, B.A., Assistant Master at
   Worcester School, Cape Colony. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

This book has been specially written for use in South African schools.


 =Test Cards in Euclid and Algebra.= By D. S. CALDERWOOD, Headmaster of
   the Normal School, Edinburgh. In three packets of 40, with Answers,
   1s. each; or in three books, price 2d., 2d., and 3d.


 =Dairy Bacteriology.= A Short Manual for the Use of Students. By Dr.
   ED. VON FREUDENREICH. Translated by J. R. AINSWORTH DAVIS, M.A.
   Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.


 =Outlines of Biology.= By P. CHALMERS MITCHELL, M.A. Illustrated. Crown
   8vo, 6s.

A text-book designed to cover the new Schedule issued by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              Technology.


 =Ornamental Design for Woven Fabrics.= By C. STEPHENSON, of the
   Technical College, Bradford; and F. SUDDARDS, of the Yorkshire
   College, Leeds. With 65 full-page Plates. Second Edition. Demy 8vo,
   7s. 6d.

“The book is very ably done, displaying an intimate knowledge of
principles, good taste, and the faculty of clear
exposition.”—_Yorkshire Post._


 =The Construction of Large Induction Coils.= By A. T. HARE, M.A. With
   numerous Diagrams. Demy 8vo, 6s.


 =Lace-Making in the Midlands, Past and Present.= By C. C. CHANNER and
   M. E. ROBERTS. With 16 full-page Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                       Text-Books of Technology.


EDITED BY W. GARNETT, D.C.L., SECRETARY OF THE TECHNICAL EDUCATION
  BOARD OF THE LONDON COUNTY COUNCIL; AND PROFESSOR J. WERTHEIMER,
  B.SC., F.I.C., PRINCIPAL OF THE MERCHANT VENTURERS’ TECHNICAL
  COLLEGE, BRISTOL.

Messrs. METHUEN are issuing a series of elementary books under the
above title. They are specially adapted to the needs of Technical
Schools and Colleges, and fulfil the requirements of students preparing
for the examinations of the City and Guilds of London Institute.

The prices vary according to the size of the volumes, which are
suitably illustrated.


=How to make a Dress.= By J. A. E. WOOD. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

“Though primarily intended for students, Miss Wood’s dainty little
manual may be consulted with advantage by any girls who want to make
their own frocks. The directions are simple and clear, and the diagrams
very helpful.”—_Literature._


=Carpentry and Joinery.= By F. C. WEBBER. With 176 Illustrations. Crown
  8vo, 3s. 6d.

The drawings are intended to serve not only as illustrations, but also
as examples for reproduction by the student.

“An admirable elementary text-book on the subject.”—_Builder._


 =Practical Mechanics.= By SIDNEY H. WELLS. With 75 Illustrations and
   Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Contains all that is necessary for the London Matriculation Examination
and the Elementary course in Applied Mechanics of the Science and Art
Department.


 =Practical Physics.= By H. STROUD, D.Sc., M.A., Professor of Physics in
   the Durham College of Science, Newcastle-on-Tyne. Fully Illustrated.
   Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

An introduction to the standard works on Practical Physics.


 =Practical Chemistry.= By W. FRENCH, M.A. Part I. With numerous
   Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

Based on the scheme issued by the Education Department for Evening
Continuation Schools and that of the Headmasters’ Association. Suitable
for Oxford and Cambridge Junior Locals.


 =Millinery: Theoretical and Practical.= By CLARE HILL. With numerous
   Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 2s.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                       Methuen’s Science Primers.

             EDITED BY PROFESSOR WERTHEIMER, B.SC., F.I.C.


Messrs. METHUEN announce the issue of a series of elementary books
dealing with the science subjects mentioned in the Directory of the
Department of Science and Art. They will be suitable for use in Grammar
Schools, Schools of Science, and Technical Institutions, and for
candidates preparing for the examinations of the Department.

=General Elementary Science.= By J. T. DUNN, D.Sc., and V. A. MUNDELLA,
  M.A. With 114 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Specially intended for London Matriculation General Elementary Science
Examination.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                German.


 =A Companion German Grammar.= By H. DE B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A.,
   Headmaster at Kidderminster Grammar School. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =German Passages for Unseen Translation.= By E. M‘QUEEN GRAY. Crown
   8vo, 2s. 6d.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              Historical.


 =A Constitutional and Political History of Rome.= By T. M. TAYLOR,
   M.A., Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, Senior
   Chancellor’s Medallist for Classics, Porson University Scholar, etc.
   etc. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

An account of the origin and growth of the Roman institutions, and a
discussion of the various political movements in Rome from the earliest
times to the death of Augustus.

“We fully recognise the value of this carefully written work, and
admire especially the fairness and sobriety of the author’s judgment,
and the human interest with which he has inspired a subject which in
some hands becomes a mere series of cold abstractions. It is a work
that will be stimulating to the student of Roman history.”—_Athenæum._


 =A Short History of Rome.= By J. WELLS, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of
   Wadham College, Oxford. With 3 Maps. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s.
   6d.

“An original work, written on an original plan and with uncommon
freshness and vigour.”—_Speaker._

“The schoolmasters who have felt the want of a fifth-form handbook of
Roman history may congratulate themselves on persuading Mr. Wells to
respond to it. His book is excellently planned and executed. Broken up
into short paragraphs, with headings to arrest the attention, his
manual does equal justice to the personal and the constitutional
aspects of the story. Special credit is due to an author who, in the
compilation of an elementary work of this kind, faces the difficulties
of his subject with conscientious skill, neither ignoring them nor
eluding them with a loose phrase, but striving to explain them in the
simplest and briefest statements.”—_Journal of Education._


 =Annals of Eton College.= By W. STERRY, M.A. With numerous
   Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d.

“A treasury of quaint and interesting reading. Mr. Sterry has by his
skill and vivacity given these records new life.”—_Academy._


 =Annals of Shrewsbury School.= By G. W. FISHER, M.A., late Assistant
   Master. With numerous Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 10s. 6d.

“This careful, erudite book.”—_Daily Chronicle._

“A book of which Old Salopians are sure to be proud.”—_Globe._


 =Annals of Westminster School.= By J. SARGEAUNT, M.A., Assistant
   Master. With numerous Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                General.


=Educational Reform.= By FABIAN WARE, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

An attempt by an expert to forecast the action and influence of the New
Secondary Education Act, with suggestions for useful developments.


 =Ballads of the Brave.= Poems of Chivalry, Enterprise, Courage, and
   Constancy. Edited by Rev. F. LANGBRIDGE. Second Edition. Crown 8vo,
   3s. 6d.; School Edition, 2s. 6d.

“A very happy conception happily carried out. These ‘Ballads of the
Brave’ are intended to suit the real tastes of boys, and will suit the
taste of the great majority.”—_Spectator._

“The book is full of splendid things.”—_World._


 =The Rights and Duties of the English Citizen.= By H. E. MALDEN, M.A.
   1s. 6d.

“There are few people better qualified to write on Citizenship than Mr.
Malden, who of course gives the historical development of all our
rights and privileges. It is an eminently readable little book—not the
less so because its author fearlessly states his personal convictions
on most matters.”—_Educational Review._


 =English Records.= A Companion to the History of England. By H. E.
   MALDEN, M.A. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

A book which aims at concentrating information upon dates, genealogy,
officials, constitutional documents, etc., which is usually found
scattered in different volumes.


 =A Digest of Deductive Logic.= By JOHNSON BARKER, B.A. Crown 8vo, 2s.
   6d.

A note book intended to be used side by side with the ordinary Manual.
It offers an outline of the subject and a fuller discussion of the
points likely to be overlooked or omitted.


 =A Class-Book of Dictation Passages.= By W. WILLIAMSON, M.A. Second
   Edition. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.


=The Metric System.= By LEON DELBOS. Crown 8vo, 2s.

A theoretical and practical guide, for use in elementary schools and by
the general reader. Containing a number of graduated problems with
answers.


 =A Primer of the Bible.= By W. H. BENNETT, M.A. Second Edition. Crown
   8vo, 2s. 6d.

This Primer sketches the history of the books which make up the Bible,
in the light of recent criticism. It gives an account of their
character, origin, and composition, as far as possible in chronological
order.


=A Primer of Wordsworth.= By LAURIE MAGNUS. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

This volume contains a concise biography of the poet, a critical
appreciation of his work in detail, and a bibliography.


=A Primer of Burns.= By W. A. CRAIGIE. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

This book is planned on a method similar to the “Primer of Tennyson.”
It has also a glossary.

“A valuable addition to the literature of the poet.”—_Times._

“An excellent short account.”—_Pall Mall Gazette._

“An admirable introduction.”—_Globe._


 =A Primer of Tennyson.= By W. M. DIXON, M.A., Professor of English
   Literature at Mason College. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

“Much sound and well-expressed criticism and acute literary judgments.
The bibliography is a boon.”—_Speaker._


 =A Short Story of English Literature.= By EMMA S. MELLOWS. Crown 8vo,
   3s. 6d.

The history of English literature told in a simple style for young
students. It is particularly rich in biographical detail, and contains
a considerable number of illustrative extracts.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                      University Extension Series.


A series of books on historical, literary, and scientific subjects,
suitable for extension students and home-reading circles. Each volume
is complete in itself, and the subjects are treated by competent
writers in a broad and philosophic spirit.

                      EDITED BY J. E. SYMES, M.A.,

              PRINCIPAL OF UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, NOTTINGHAM.

            Crown 8vo. Price (with some exceptions) 2s. 6d.

 =The Industrial History of England.= By H. DE B. GIBBINS, Litt.D.,
   M.A., late Scholar of Wadham College, Oxon., Cobden Prizeman. Sixth
   Edition, Revised. With Maps and Plans. 3s.

“A compact and clear story of our industrial development. A study of
this concise but luminous book cannot fail to give the reader a clear
insight into the principal phenomena of our industrial history. The
editor and publishers are to be congratulated on this first volume of
their venture, and we shall look with expectant interest for the
succeeding volumes of the series.”—_University Extension Journal._


 =A History of English Political Economy.= By L. L. PRICE, M.A., Fellow
   of Oriel College, Oxon. Third Edition.


 =Problems of Poverty=: An Inquiry into the Industrial Conditions of the
   Poor. Fourth Edition. By J. A. HOBSON, M.A.


 =Victorian Poets.= By A. SHARP.


 =The French Revolution.= By J. E. SYMES, M.A.


 =Psychology.= By F. S. GRANGER, M.A., Lecturer in Philosophy at
   University College, Nottingham. Second Edition.


 =The Evolution of Plant Life: Lower Forms.= By G. MASSEE, Kew Gardens.
   With Illustrations.


 =Air and Water.= By Prof. V. B. LEWES, M.A. Illustrated.


 =The Chemistry of Life and Health.= By C. W. KIMMINS, M.A. Illustrated.


 =The Mechanics of Daily Life.= By V. P. SELLS, M.A. Illustrated.


 =English Social Reformers.= By H. DE B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A.


 =English Trade and Finance in the Seventeenth Century.= By W. A. S.
   HEWINS, B.A.


 =The Chemistry of Fire.= The Elementary Principles of Chemistry. By M.
   M. PATTISON MUIR, M.A. Illustrated.


 =A Text-Book of Agricultural Botany.= By M. C. POTTER. M.A., F.L.S.
   Illustrated. 3s. 6d.


 =The Vault of Heaven.= A Popular Introduction to Astronomy. By R. A.
   GREGORY. With numerous Illustrations.


 =Meteorology.= The Elements of Weather and Climate. By H. N. DICKSON,
   F.R.S.E., F.R.MET.SOC. Illustrated.


 =A Manual of Electrical Science.= By G. J. BURCH, M.A. Illustrated. 3s.


 =The Earth=: An Introduction to Physiography. By EVAN SMALL, M.A.
   Illustrated.


 =Insect Life.= By F. W. THEOBALD, M.A. Illustrated.


 =English Poetry from Blake to Browning.= By W. M. DIXON, M.A.


 =English Local Government.= By E. JENKS, M.A., Professor of Law at
   University College, Liverpool.


 =The Greek View of Life.= By G. L. DICKINSON, Fellow of King’s College,
   Cambridge. Second Edition.


            PRINTED BY MORRISON AND GIBB LIMITED, EDINBURGH

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          Transcriber’s Notes


This catalog has been extracted from the book The Alien Invasion,
Project Gutenberg E-Book 47043.

Punctuation errors have been corrected.

Italicized words and phrases are presented by surrounding the text with
_underscores_; boldface by surrounding with =equal signs=.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A List of Educational Works Published
by Methuen & Company - June 1900, by Methuen & Company

